README.md, before:

# @qlik/react-native-helium

<img src="logo/he2.png" height="256"/>

Skia base JSI renderer for Picasso and Nebula

## Building SKIA

1. clone skia
2. cd skia
3. python tools/git-sync-deps
4. generate the build command by choosing which platform listed below
5. ninja -C [wherever your outdir is]

### Android

```sh
bin/gn gen out/arm64 --args='target_os="android" target_cpu="arm64" skia_use_icu=false skia_use_piex=true skia_use_sfntly=false skia_use_system_expat=false skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false skia_use_system_libpng=false skia_use_system_libwebp=false skia_use_system_zlib=false skia_enable_tools=false is_official_build=true skia_enable_skottie=false is_debug=false skia_enable_pdf=false skia_enable_flutter_defines=true paragraph_tests_enabled=false is_component_build=false ndk="/Users/who/Library/Android/sdk/ndk/21.4.7075529" skia_use_system_freetype2=false skia_use_gl=true cc="clang" cxx="clang++"'
```

### iOS
#### Device
run ```xcrun --sdk iphoneos --show-sdk-path``` to get path to sdk
```sh
bin/gn gen out/ios64 --args='target_os="ios" target_cpu="arm64" skia_use_icu=false
skia_use_piex=true
skia_use_sfntly=false
skia_use_system_expat=false
skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false
skia_use_system_libpng=false
skia_use_system_libwebp=false
skia_use_system_zlib=false
skia_enable_tools=false
is_official_build=true
skia_enable_skottie=false
is_debug=false
skia_enable_pdf=false
skia_enable_flutter_defines=true
paragraph_tests_enabled=false
is_component_build=false
skia_use_metal=true
skia_use_gl=true
cc="clang"
cxx="clang++"
ios_min_target="11.0"
xcode_sysroot="/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS15.4.sdk"
extra_ldflags=["--sysroot='/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS15.4.sdk'"]
extra_cflags=["-DSKIA_C_DLL", "-DHAVE_ARC4RANDOM_BUF", "-target", "arm64-apple-ios", "-fembed-bitcode"]
'
```

#### Sim
run ```xcrun --sdk iphonesimulator --show-sdk-path``` to get path to sdk
```sh
bin/gn gen out/iosSim --args='target_os="ios" target_cpu="x64" skia_use_icu=false
skia_use_piex=true
skia_use_sfntly=false
skia_use_system_expat=false
skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false
skia_use_system_libpng=false
skia_use_system_libwebp=false
skia_use_system_zlib=false
skia_enable_tools=false
is_official_build=true
skia_enable_skottie=false
is_debug=false
skia_enable_pdf=false
skia_enable_flutter_defines=true
paragraph_tests_enabled=false
is_component_build=false
skia_use_metal=true
skia_use_gl=true
cc="clang"
cxx="clang++"
ios_min_target="11.0"
xcode_sysroot="/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneSimulator15.4.sdk"
extra_ldflags=["--sysroot='/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneSimulator15.4.sdk'"]
extra_cflags=["-DSKIA_C_DLL", "-DHAVE_ARC4RANDOM_BUF", "-target", "arm64-apple-ios-simulator"]
'
```


## building harfbuzz
1. git clone it
2. copy the ios_cross.txt from here into the 
3. run meson setup --cross-file <<crossfile>>.txt ios<<Platform>> -Ddefault_library=static -Dtests="disabled"
4. then `run ninja -C ios<<Platform>>`

### ANROID
building on mac for android; there's a bug with meson and I was only able to build it using cmake

## build icu
1. for anroid clone the icu github repo, copy the build_icu_android.sh into the icu/icu4c/android folder(create it) and run it
2. for iOS i used https://github.com/dbquarrel/icu4c-xcframework

### Build framework
```sh
xcodebuild -create-xcframework -library iosSim/libskia.a -library ios64/libskia.a -output framework/skia.xcframework
xcodebuild -create-xcframework -library iosSim/libsvg.a -library ios64/libsvg.a -output framework/skiasvg.xcframework
```
where iosheaders has a copy of the skia/include folder
## License

MIT

Commit message:

chore: update readme for instructions on running (#56)
Co-authored-by: Vittorio Cellucci <vel@qlik.com>

README.md, after:

# @qlik/react-native-helium

<img src="logo/he2.png" height="256"/>

Skia base JSI renderer for Picasso and Nebula

## Running
To build, develop and run, please see https://github.com/qlik-oss/react-native-carbon

## Building SKIA

1. clone skia
2. cd skia
3. python tools/git-sync-deps
4. generate the build command by choosing which platform listed below
5. ninja -C [wherever your outdir is]

### Android

```sh
bin/gn gen out/arm64 --args='target_os="android" target_cpu="arm64" skia_use_icu=false skia_use_piex=true skia_use_sfntly=false skia_use_system_expat=false skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false skia_use_system_libpng=false skia_use_system_libwebp=false skia_use_system_zlib=false skia_enable_tools=false is_official_build=true skia_enable_skottie=false is_debug=false skia_enable_pdf=false skia_enable_flutter_defines=true paragraph_tests_enabled=false is_component_build=false ndk="/Users/who/Library/Android/sdk/ndk/21.4.7075529" skia_use_system_freetype2=false skia_use_gl=true cc="clang" cxx="clang++"'
```

### iOS
#### Device
run ```xcrun --sdk iphoneos --show-sdk-path``` to get path to sdk
```sh
bin/gn gen out/ios64 --args='target_os="ios" target_cpu="arm64" skia_use_icu=false
skia_use_piex=true
skia_use_sfntly=false
skia_use_system_expat=false
skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false
skia_use_system_libpng=false
skia_use_system_libwebp=false
skia_use_system_zlib=false
skia_enable_tools=false
is_official_build=true
skia_enable_skottie=false
is_debug=false
skia_enable_pdf=false
skia_enable_flutter_defines=true
paragraph_tests_enabled=false
is_component_build=false
skia_use_metal=true
skia_use_gl=true
cc="clang"
cxx="clang++"
ios_min_target="11.0"
xcode_sysroot="/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS15.4.sdk"
extra_ldflags=["--sysroot='/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS15.4.sdk'"]
extra_cflags=["-DSKIA_C_DLL", "-DHAVE_ARC4RANDOM_BUF", "-target", "arm64-apple-ios", "-fembed-bitcode"]
'
```

#### Sim
run ```xcrun --sdk iphonesimulator --show-sdk-path``` to get path to sdk
```sh
bin/gn gen out/iosSim --args='target_os="ios" target_cpu="x64" skia_use_icu=false
skia_use_piex=true
skia_use_sfntly=false
skia_use_system_expat=false
skia_use_system_libjpeg_turbo=false
skia_use_system_libpng=false
skia_use_system_libwebp=false
skia_use_system_zlib=false
skia_enable_tools=false
is_official_build=true
skia_enable_skottie=false
is_debug=false
skia_enable_pdf=false
skia_enable_flutter_defines=true
paragraph_tests_enabled=false
is_component_build=false
skia_use_metal=true
skia_use_gl=true
cc="clang"
cxx="clang++"
ios_min_target="11.0"
xcode_sysroot="/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneSimulator15.4.sdk"
extra_ldflags=["--sysroot='/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneSimulator.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneSimulator15.4.sdk'"]
extra_cflags=["-DSKIA_C_DLL", "-DHAVE_ARC4RANDOM_BUF", "-target", "arm64-apple-ios-simulator"]
'
```


## building harfbuzz
1. git clone it
2. copy the ios_cross.txt from here into the 
3. run meson setup --cross-file <<crossfile>>.txt ios<<Platform>> -Ddefault_library=static -Dtests="disabled"
4. then `run ninja -C ios<<Platform>>`

### ANROID
building on mac for android; there's a bug with meson and I was only able to build it using cmake

## build icu
1. for anroid clone the icu github repo, copy the build_icu_android.sh into the icu/icu4c/android folder(create it) and run it
2. for iOS i used https://github.com/dbquarrel/icu4c-xcframework

### Build framework
```sh
xcodebuild -create-xcframework -library iosSim/libskia.a -library ios64/libskia.a -output framework/skia.xcframework
xcodebuild -create-xcframework -library iosSim/libsvg.a -library ios64/libsvg.a -output framework/skiasvg.xcframework
```
where iosheaders has a copy of the skia/include folder
## License

MIT
